Question 1
Yes, the user has the read and write permissions. As a consequence, devconnected can perform some modifications on the file.
Question 2
No! Bob belongs to the “others” category, which doesn’t have the write permission on the folder. As a consequence, he won’t be able to move the file.
Question 3
No. Bob belongs to the “others” category, which doesn’t have the execute (going through) permission on the folder. Bob will be denied the access.
Question 4
Yes! The write permission is set for the user. As a consequence, I will be able to write to this file.
Question 5
81! From right to left, each number represents an increasing power of 2. If you add the numbers (except for zeros), it ends up at 81.
Question 6
27! From right to left, each number represents an increasing power of 2. If you add the numbers (except for zeros), it ends up at 27.
Question 7
1100! By applying multiple divisions to the number 12, and counting remainders on those operations, you end up with the binary number 1100
Question 8
Setting permissions to 777 is equivalent to the following permissions : r w x r w x r w x so all permissions for all users.
Question 9
Setting permissions to 444 is equivalent to the following permissions : r – – r – – r – – so read only for all users.
Question 10
Setting permissions to 641 is equivalent to the following permissions : r w – r – – – – x so read-write the owner, r for the group and execute for the others.
Question 11
The permission mask can be seen using the umask command.
Question 12
The Linux permission mask is a mask that sets the permissions for newly created files. Files are created with a 666 permission by default and directories are created with a 777 permission by default. The mask value is then deducted from this value to create the initial permissions.
Question 13
The permissions for newly created files will be r w – r – – r – – (6 – 0 = 6, 6 – 2 = 4, 6 – 2 = 4)
Question 14
The permissions for newly created directories will be r w x r – x r – x (7 – 0 = 7, 7 – 2 = 5, 7 – 2 = 5)
Question 15
It means that the user is able to go through the directory for navigation.
Question 16
It means that the user is able to create and delete entries from this directory.
Question 17
It is called the sticky bit and it is used on Linux to create shared directories (for example the /tmp directory).
Question 18
No. If the sticky bit is activated, only the owner of the file will be able to delete this file (even if the other group has full permissions)
Question 19
No. The sticky bit is a capital “T” meaning that the sticky bit is set for this directory but the execute permission is not set. As a consequence, no users except for the user itself can go through this directory.
Question 20
It is the chown command. It should be directly followed by the new owner of the file and the name of the file we want to change.
Question 21
It is the chgrp command. It is directly followed by the new group and by the file we want to apply the command on.
Question 22
To change groups recursively, you have to use the -R option for the chgrp command.
Question 23
For the chgrp command to write all changes done, you should specify the -c option.
Question 24
The SUID is used to execute a command as the owner of the file instead of the user that issued the command.
Question 25
The passwd command ie executed with the SUID enabled on Linux. It allows users to change their own passwords without being able to change other people password.
Question 26
It is possible to set the SUID by executing “chmod u+s file” or “chmod 4777 file”
Question 27
The GUID is used to execute a command as a member of the group owning the file instead of the group of the user who issued the command.
Question 28
It is possible to set the GUID by executing “chmod g+s file” or “chmod 2777 file”
Question 29
No. In order for the permissions to be preserved, you have to run cp with the -p option.
Question 30
A lowercase t means that the sticky bit is set whereas an uppercase T means that the sticky bit is set but the execute permission is not set.

